
Skills
======

The selection of skills available in a guild naturally depends on the type
(occupational, layman, or race) and the style (fighter, magic, cleric,
thief, ranger) of the guild. The style of the guild has to be clearly
defined and must be limited to one profession. So for example a 
fighter-cleric guild will not be accepted. (But one could for example 
create a guild which is an occupational fighter guild and a layman cleric
guild, occupying two guildslots instead of one, where it is impossible to
join only one branch.)

A minor guild should not offer any skills at all. They are simply not
intended to provide anything more than a bit of feeling in the game. 

As for the major guilds, the limits should be set like this:

Any major guild can offer education of up to 700 skill levels. This simply
means that if the guild offers weapon education up to 40% in five different
types of weapons, climbing up to 90% and all appraising skills (3) up to
80% adding up to a total of: 40 * 5 + 90 + 80 * 3 = 530%. The guild can now
choose to offer another 170% in other skills as well.

Each guild can define guild specific skills if appropriate. So a dwarf race
guild might teach 'minecraft', and a fighter guild will probably train a
special kind of attack or defence. However, think carefully in advance
before defining a skill that maybe never will be used. Remember to choose
skills defined by the mudlib (see /sys/ss_types.h), select from those
according to type and style of your guild. 

Guild specific skills may be trained to a maximum level of 100. They are
not counted towards the maximum of 700 levels for the guild. 

- Occupational guilds:

The guild specific skills and the selection of skills from the	mudlib
defined skills must reflect the profession (guild style). 

The maximum teaching level in mudlib defined skills is 90. 

- Layman guilds:

As for occupational guilds, the guild specific skills and the selection of
skills from the mudlib have to reflect solely the guild style.

The maximum teaching level for mudlib defined skills is 50, except for 
general skills, for which it is 75. 

The sum of levels above the limits in 'man skills' may not exceed 400. Thus
the maximum tax for mudlib skills is 6.7%, unless weapon or specialized
fighting skills are trained, in which case the tax can reach 10%.

- Race guilds:

The selection of skills should reflect the advantages of the race (a gnome
guild would probably offer trading), while excluding skills that the race
would never bother with (no hobbit guild should train swimming).

Guild specific skills may not give aid in combat. The guild may not train
specialized fighting skills as defined in /sys/ss_types.h. Other mudlib 
defined skills may only be trained to a maximum level of 50. 

The sum of levels above the limits in 'man skills' may not exceed 200. Thus
the maximum tax a race guild can pay for mudlib skills is 3.3%, unless it
offers weapon skills, in which case the tax for mudlib skills could
theoretically reach 5%.

Skills which are alien to the guild style may be offered only in a very
limited way. So for example a thief guild might offer defence or parry
up to level 30, or a fighter guild could offer two magic skills up to
level 20. Skills alien to the guild style count twice towards the sum of
levels which the guild may offer above the limits in 'man skills' (the
skill levels for which tax has to be paid).


Guild Stats
===========

Each type of guild is given a stat in the player. As all stats it is
governed by how much experience the player gains. Each time the player
gains experience %tax of it will end up in the guilds stat. 

For normal stats, players can set the %pref values. For the guild stat this
% value is the guild tax. This also means that if a player has joined a
guild, then he can not set his learn prefs to more than 100 - %tax. 

Only the normal stats are used to decide if it is time for a mortal to
become a wizard. The average should be 100. The guild stats are not
included in this, so the xp that goes to the guilds are in a sense lost to
the mortal. 

It is up to the guild to supply an interpretation of the guild stat. Some
might choose not to do this and that is quite ok. The main purpose is to
tax the players for joining a guild. It is of course more entertaining if
the guild stat actually means something. 

If a player joins or leaves a guild, the guild stat can be reset to 1
(Use clear_guild_stat()).

If you want one or more variables in the player measuring some prestige or
other advancement in the guild, this is easily solved using the skills
mechanism. Skills are in effect extra identifiable variables stored in the
player. You do not of course have to display the value as a skill.


Guild Council
=============

A guild can have leaders or a guild council. If the leaders of the guild
or the members of the guild council with the authority of their office can
exert power over fellow mortal members of the guild, the selection of the
leaders or the council members has to be done by mortals.

If the mortal leaders or council members have powers over their fellow 
guild members, players who want to join the guild must be told before they
join what these powers are.

The guildmaster sets up the rules, decides which powers the council
should have, and how the members are selected, but he or she may not
interfere in the selection process itself, nor may he or she meddle when
the council is using its privileges.

An example might look like this:
The guildmaster codes a system for the members of the guild to elect a 
council. The council can for example remove mortals from the guild or
make it impossible for a guild member to use the training facilites the
guild offers. 

The council then sets up the rules which the guild members have to
follow and decides on punishments.

If, for example, the council decides to make it illegal to kill certain
npcs, the guildmaster can either automatically remove a player from the
guild when he or she kills one of those npcs, or he can decide to leave
punitive measures to the council.

In this latter case, it is then solely up to the council members do
gather the information necessary to make a decision, and to enforce this
decision using the powers that have been bestowed upon them by the guild
master. If the council eg is not able to remove a player from the guild
without wizard intervention, because it lacks the necessary commands,
the player cannot be removed from the guild. 

The powers of the guild leaders or the council must remain within
reasonable limits, and should relate only to their guild. So it would be
illegal to make it possible for a guild council to reduce the quest exp
of a player, or to give the council access to log files, whereas it
would be legal to allow the council to remove a player from the guild
(with all the normal consequences of leaving the guild) or to make
WANTED posters, naming killers of npcs in a city, which the council
members can read like every other player.

Please keep in mind that the council members are mortals, so they should
not have wizard like powers or knowledge, but be subject to the risks of
second hand information and hearsay, lack of proofs and so on like any
other law enforcement officer. 

